Introduction:-
Taking, In Vitro Fertilization is an important step for many couples to their journey towards parenthood which is offer by the best IVF center in Pitampura – Origyn Fertility & IVF.  This journey even continues after the embryo transfer, as the care and attention required post-IVF are also very critical. You need to be considerate to maximize the chances of a successful pregnancy. Here are some points from one of the best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF, that you need to keep in mind for your preparation for this crucial period.

 

best IVF center in Pitampura
 
What is an embryo transfer? 
An embryo transfer is a part of IVF treatment where we place the fertilized egg into a woman’s uterus. It is done to help start a pregnancy. This process is simple and usually painless. After the transfer, it is advisable by the best IVF center in Pitampura – Origyn IVF that the woman should rest before returning to normal activities. It’s a crucial step that helped many couples start their parenthood journey.

 

Let’s understand the Post IVF Phase:-
Here are some the points by the best IVF center in Pitampura – Origyn IVF, to understand properly the post IVF phase.

 

What Happens After Embryo Transfer? 
After the embryo transfer is complete, your body begins the process of implantation in which the embryo attaches itself to the uterine lining which is an important step for a successful pregnancy. According to Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura, during this time, your body needs adequate support and rest to facilitate this process.

 

The Two-Week Wait (2WW):- 
The two-week wait also known as the 2WW, is the period between the embryo transfer and the pregnancy test. This period takes you through a lot of emotions, hope, excitement, and, understandably, some anxiety. It is very important to take care of your physical and mental well-being during this period as it is recommended by Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura.

As Origyn IVF is the best IVF center in Pitampura, it will help you to understand this process.

 

Dos and Don’ts After IVF Transfer:-
There are several things that you should do and avoid to increase the chances of success rate of pregnancy. Here are some suggestions from the best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF:

 

best IVF center in Pitampura
 
What you should do after the IVF transfer? 
Confused what to do after IVF? Here are some of the tips by Origyn IVF – the best IVF center in Pitampura.

 

Rest and Relaxation 
One of the main advise from Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura is that after embryo transfer, proper rest is recommended as the body needs time to allow and adjust the embryo to implant. You should take it easy and avoid any kind of strenuous activities.

 

Maintain a Healthy Diet 
Another advise from the best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF is that eating a well-balanced diet comprising of all the nutrients, vitamins and minerals will help you provide a nurturing environment for the embryo and will support your health. Junk, processed and excessive sugar foods should be avoided. 

 

Stay Hydrated 
Staying hydrated, drinking plenty of water is a must to ensure healthy body functions and it also supports the uterus to perform its role. You should drink at least eight glasses of water in a day. Sugary or caffeinated drinks need to be avoided which is advised by the best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF.

 

Follow Medication Instructions 
You should take your medications properly and timely as directed by the doctor of Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura to support the implantation and growth of the embryo. Failing to do so can have negative impacts on the process. 

 

best IVF center in Pitampura
 
Precautions to Take After IVF Transfer 
Here are certain recommendations by the best IVF center in Pitampura- Origyn IVF: 

 

Avoid Heavy Lifting 
Avoid lifting heavy weights or objects lifting as it can cause harm to your body and also cause adverse effects of the implantation process. Try to do light activities for a pre-described time by your doctors of Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura. 

 

Say No to Strenuous Exercise 
Light walking is safe to do in general as it helps the body to do mobility but running, swimming, and intense workouts should be avoided as they can disrupt the implantation procedure and create stress for the body which is highly advised by doctors of best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF.

 

Skip Hot Baths and Saunas 
According to the doctor of Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura, you must skip hot baths, saunas, or even electric blankets as they might affect the core body temperature and it can affect the implantation process instead you can opt for lukewarm or room temperature shows. 

 

Refrain from Alcohol and Smoking 
Alcohol and smoking cause negative effects in general but after the implantation process, it is recommended by the best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF that you should highly avoid alcohol and smoking as it will affect embryo development.

 

Don’t Rush into Sexual Activity 
Do not indulge in sexual activity until the pregnancy test. Doctors of the best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF, generally suggest getting involved in sexual activities after 2-3 weeks of the implantation process. 

 

Lifestyle Tips After IVF Transfer 
A healthy lifestyle also plays a crucial role in the IVF process. Following are the tips by the Best IVF center in Pitampura- Origyn IVF: 

 

Managing Stress Levels 
High stress levels can severely impact the IVF process, hence, indulging in relaxing activities such as reading, meditation or light yoga is recommended. You should stay calm and positive as it can make a big difference. 

 

Importance of Sleep 
It is suggested by the best IVF center in Pitampura Origyn IVF that a night of proper sleep of at least 7-9 hours during the IVF process helps your body to perform healthy body functions throughout the day. A calming bedtime routine also ensures rest and helps you unwind.

 

Support Systems 
A good support system from either family or friends can help you in this journey to maintain your emotional well being. It would help you to keep calm and motivated. Origyn IVF, the best IVF center in Pitampura, will help you immensely to ensure a healthy lifestyle through personalized plans and by staying in touch with you. 

 

best IVF center in Pitampura
 
When to Call Your Doctor? 
You should stay in touch with your doctor and immediately report any unusual symptoms such as heavy bleeding, fever or severe pain. Reaching to your doctor early helps in receiving the potential medical advice on time. 

 

Conclusion 
The period post IVF transfer is crucial and critical where you need to consider these dos and don’ts as recommended by the Best IVF center in Pitampura, Origyn IVF. Remember, each journey is unique and by maintaining positivity and patience, you can increase your chances of successful pregnancy. 

Still feeling confused, visit Origyn Fertility & IVF, for more informative content.
https://www.origynivf.com/post-ivf-care-with-origyn-ivf-best-ivf-center-in-pitampura/
